# Casting Agency

This is the capstone project for Udacity's Fullstack Nanodegree program. It models a casting agency that is responsible for casting actors in movies and managing these actors.  
Authorized users can interact with the API to view, add, update, and delete movies and actor details.

---
## API URL 
- **Heroku base URL:** https://kep-casting-agency.herokuapp.com/
- **Localhost base URL:**  is http://127.0.0.1:5000/


## Features
- Create and manage a database of actors and movies for casting purposes.

## Authentication and Authorisation
Authentication is implemented in the form of RBAC (Role Based Access Control) using `Auth0`
#### Roles & Permissions
- Executive Producer  
    `get:actors`, `get:movies`
- Casting Director  
    `get:actors`, `get:movies`
    `post:actors`, `patch:actors`, `delete:actors`
- Casting Assistant  
    `get:actors`, `get:movies`
    `post:actors`, `patch:actors`, `delete:actors`
    `post:movies`, `patch:movies`, `delete:movies`

## Getting Started

### Installation and Database Setup

Clone the repo by running 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Keparoo/casting-agency.git
```
#### Key Dependencies

- [Python 3.8.5](https://docs.python.org/3/using/unix.html#getting-and-installing-the-latest-version-of-python) Follow the instructions to install the latest version of python for your platform. This project was developed using Python 3.8.5 and the project will not run with versions of Python below 3.6.
- [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) is a lightweight backend microservices framework. Flask is required to handle requests and responses.
- [Flask-CORS](https://flask-cors.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#) is the extension we'll use to handle cross origin requests from our frontend server.
- [Flask-Migrate](https://flask-cors.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is an extension that handles SQLAlchemy database migrations for Flask applications using Alembic. The database operations are made available through the Flask command-line interface.
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/) is a powerful, open source object-relational database system
- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) is the Python SQL toolkit and ORM we'll use handle the lightweight sqlite database. You'll primarily work in app.py and can reference models.py.
- [Unittest](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html) is a Python testing framework.
- [Auth0](https://auth0.com/docs/api/management/v2) is an adaptable authentication and authorization platform.

#### Virtual Enviornment

It is recommended to work within a virtual environment whenever using Python for projects. This keeps your dependencies for each project separate and organaized. Instructions for setting up a virual enviornment for your platform can be found in the [python docs](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/).

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
```

Activate the virtual environment:

```bash
. venv/bin/activate
```

#### Installing Python Dependencies

Once the virtual environment is setup and running, install the required dependencies by navigating to the project directory and running:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

This will install all of the required packages in the `requirements.txt` file.

---

## Database Setup

The project uses **PostgreSQL** databases.
- Create two databases: One for **testing** and one for **development**
```bash
createdb <database_name>
```
- Generate database tables from the migration files included by executing: 
  `python manage.py db upgrade`
- Add starter data by executing:
  `python manage.py seed`

- Change the `database_url` in `setup.sh` and `setup_testing.sh` to match the names of your development and testing databases

## Running the Server
Switch to the project directory and ensure that the virtual environment is running.

#### To run the **development** server, execute:  

```bash
source setup.sh
flask run
```
#### To run the **test** suite:
- Stop the development server
- Add a fresh JWT token for each of the roles specified above under roles. (See section on authorization)
- Then execute:
 
```bash
source setup_test.sh
```
---  
### Authorization
The following URL will allow **auth0** login and generate a jwt for the currently setup **auth0** account:
- [Generate JWT](https://websecure.us.auth0.com/authorize?audience=casting-agency&response_type=token&client_id=1KYiQV065tmQi7513VmD3Ka6TxvNpyRl&redirect_uri=http://127.0.0.1:5000)  

To create an authorization system matching the API see the docs at [Auth0](https://auth0.com/docs/api/management/v2)  
- Create an auth0 account
- In the auth0 dashboard create an application and API
- Add authorized users
- Create roles for the users
- Create and assign permissions to the roles
- Update the `AUTH0_DOMAIN` and `API_AUDIENCE` constants in the `auth.py` file
---
## API

In order to use the API, users need to be authenticated. JWT tokens can be generated by logging in with the provided credentials on the hosted site.

### Endpoints

- Note: any `curl` commands used must include an authorization header as all endpoints require authorization to use:  
`curl -H "Authorization: Bearer <JWT_ACCESS_TOKEN>"`

#### GET /movies

- General:

  - Returns a list of all the movies in database.
  - Request arguments: None
  - Roles authorized : Casting Assistant, Casting Director, Executive Producer
  - Required permission: `get:movies`

- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/movies`

```json
{
    "movies": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "release_date": "Fri, 19 Jan 2018 05:00:00 GMT",
            "title": "Call Me By Your Name"
        },
        {
            "id": 2,
            "release_date": "Wed, 30 Sep 2020 05:00:00 GMT",
            "title": "The Boys in the Band"
        }
        ],
    "success": true
}
```

#### GET /movies/\<int:id>

- General:

  - Returns the specific movie matching the provided id.
  - Request arguments: id (The ID of the movie)
  - Roles authorized : Casting Assistant, Casting Director, Executive Producer
  - Required permission: `get:movies`
  - Returns a 404 if movie is not in database

- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/movies/1`

```json
{
  "movie": {
    "id": 1,
    "release_date": "Fri, 19 Jan 2018 05:00:00 GMT",
    "title": "Call Me By Your Name"
  },
  "success": true
}
```

#### POST /movies

- General:

  - Creates a new movie with the provided parameters.
  - Request arguments: None
  - Roles authorized : Executive Producer
  - Required permission: `post:movies`
  - All fields must be populated:
  - Request Body: 
  ```json
    {
        "title": "The Boys in the Band",
        "release_date": "2020-09-30"
    }
  ```

- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/movies -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "title": "The Boys in the Band", "release_date": "2020-09-30" }'`

```json
{
  "movie": {
    "id": 3,
    "release_date": "Wed, 30 Sep 2020 05:00:00 GMT",
    "title": "The Boys in the Band"
  },
  "success": true
}
```

#### PATCH /movies/\<int:id>

- General:

  - Updates a movie with the provided parameters.
  - Request Arguments: id (The ID of the movie to update)
  - Roles authorized : Casting Director, Executive Producer
  - Required permission: `patch:movies`
  - Returns a 404 if movie is not in database
  - All fields must be populated
  - Request Body:
  ```json
    {
      "title": "The Boys in the Band Updated",
      "release_date": "2018-01-19"
    }
  ```
- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/movies/3 -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "title": "The Boys in the Band Updated", "release_date": "2018-01-19" }'`

```json
{
  "movie": {
    "id": 3,
    "release_date": "Fri, 19 Jan 2018 05:00:00 GMT",
    "title": "The Boys in the Band Updated"
  },
  "success": true
}
```

#### DELETE /movies/\<int:id>

- General:

  - Deletes a specific movie matching the provided movie id.
  - Request Arguments: id (The ID of the movie to delete)
  - Roles authorized : Executive Producer
  - Required permission: `delete:movie`
  - Returns a 404 if movie is not in database

- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/movies/3 -X DELETE`

```json
{
  "delete": 3,
  "success": true
}
```

#### GET /actors

- General:

  - Returns a list of all the actors in the database
  - Request arguments: None
  - Roles authorized : Casting Assistant, Casting Director, Executive Producer
  - Required permission: `get:actors`

- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/actors`

```json
{
  "actors": [
    {
      "age": 26,
      "gender": "male",
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Timothee Chalamet"
    },
    {
      "age": 44,
      "gender": "male",
      "id": 2,
      "name": "Zachary Quinto"
    }
  ],
  "success": true
}
```

#### GET /actors/\<int:id>

- General:

  - Returns the specific actor matching the provided id.
  - Request arguments: id (ID of the actor)
  - Roles authorized : Casting Assistant, Casting Director, Executive Producer
  - Required permission: `get:actors`
  - Returns a 404 if actor is not found in database

- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/actors/1`

```json
{
  "actor": {
    "age": 26,
    "gender": "male",
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Timothee Chalamet"
  },
  "success": true
}
```

#### POST /actors

- General:

  - Creates a new actor with the provided parameters.
  - Request arguments: None
  - Roles authorized : Casting Director, Executive Producer
  - Required permission: `add:actors`
  - Request Body:
  ```json
    {
        "name": "Marion Cotillard",
        "age": 46,
        "gender": "female"
    }
  ```

- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/actors -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "name": "Marion Cotillard", "age": 46, "gender": "female" }'`

```json
{
  "actor": {
    "age": 46,
    "gender": "female",
    "id": 3,
    "name": "Marion Cotillard"
  },
  "success": true
}
```

#### PATCH /actors/\<int:id>

- General:

  - Updates a specific actor with the provided parameters.
  - Request arguments: id (The ID of the actor to update)
  - Roles authorized : Casting Director, Executive Producer
  - Required permission: `patch:actors`
  - Returns a 404 if actor is not in database
  - All fields must be populated
  - Request Body:
  ```json
    {
        "name": "Marion Cotillard Updated",
        "age": 20,
        "gender": "female"
    }
  ```

- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/actors/3 -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "name": "Marion Cotillard Updated", "age": 20, "gender": "female" }'`

```json
{
  "actor": {
    "age": 20,
    "gender": "female",
    "id": 3,
    "name": "Marion Cotillard Updated"
  },
  "success": true
}
```

#### DELETE /actors/<int:id>

- General:

  - Deletes a specific actor based on id
  - Request arguments: id (The ID of the actor to delete)
  - Roles authorized: Casting Director, Executive Producer
  - Required permissions: `delete:actors`
  - Returns a 404 if actor is not in database

- Sample: `curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/actors/3 -X DELETE`

```json
{
  "delete": 3,
  "success": true
}
```
## Testing

Replace the JWT tokens in `test_app.py` with the ones generated on the website. JWT tokens expire 24 hours from generation.

For testing locally, stop the development server and reset the database.
The following resets the database and runs the test suite:

```bash
source setup_test.sh
```

---

## Error Handling

- 401 and 403 errors due to authorization are returned as

```json
{
  "code": "unauthorized",
  "description": "Permission not found."
}
```

Other errors are returned in the following json format:

```json
{
  "success": "False",
  "error": 404,
  "message": "resource not found"
}
```

The error codes currently returned are:

- 400 – bad request
- 401 – unauthorized
- 403 - forbidden
- 404 – resource not found
- 422 – unprocessable
- 500 – internal server error

### Author
Kep Kaeppeler is the author of this project and all documentation.